pyDM - On Locations (also a... tangent on states)

(Rocky) Aside from characters, locations are perhaps most important part of this engine. Perhaps they are even more important
than NPCs as locations form the basis how the character interacts with the world. Even more difficult is that, unlike
characters, where there is a well established paradigm for thinking about how construct a character in both a role play
and gameplay sense, there isn't as well an established paradigm for thinking about locations. In TRPGs, a location more
or less exists in the minds of the player and the DM who is given significant liberty to embelish the location. If the DM
wants the city to have a rowdy dwarven tavern for the players to visit... NO PROBLEM!

Unfortunately, this type of creativity on the fly is unable to replicated in the digital space and while it is the stated
goal of pyDM to provide creators as big (and accessible) a sandbox as possible to replicate this, we will still be hampered
by the fact that a creator won't be able to do that sort of on - the - fly creativity.

Okay, so let's look to video games for inspiration. Here we also encounter some problems. While there are text based adventure
games (a paradigm which I think pyDM would do well to copy some, but not all of the framework of), other (graphical) video games
also have one notable difference from what we are trying to accomplish... That difference is that environments are modeled.
Since both designer and player are conveyed visual information about the environments in game, it is much easier to think
about game environments in the same way that we think about the physical world. Further more, considerable information
can be conveyed to the player simply by the way things look.

Being a text-based outfit we don't have that same luxury. We have to use words to paint the picture. Alone, this is easy
enough, writers have done this for generations but on top of that, locations need to function somewhat like their video game
counterpart. If we are in the capital city, we should be able to go to the east woods, or the mountains to the west. We can't just
think of locations as rooms along a linear corridor (perhaps with a branch or two coming off of it), they have to be
constituents of a cohesive world.

In addition, story "events" must also be triggered correctly. Say we want something to happen the first time the character enters the capital city,
we must provide an interface to allow this to happen. Perhaps after completing a quest in some far off dungeon nothing happens
until the character returns to the capital... this must also be accounted for.

Fortunately, I think there is a good paradigm for thinking about this. If we think of most locations as being a constant,
(a city rarely "changes") there are two ways (which we will likely use in tandem) to accomplish this task. The first is that
any changes to the functionality of the location can be easily sub-classed from the main instance of the location. To use
an example from a well known game: think of the Imperial City in Oblivion, anyone who played through TES IV knows that
at the climax of the game the Imperial City was sacked by a daedric invasion. If we were to model this in pyDM we would
have two classes that represented the Imperial City. One that was the city in times of peace and another... drastically
altered that would be used at the appropriate time.

How do we know when is the appropriate time? Using states, of course. While I'm going to be light on the technical details
(they have yet to even be mapped out in the most abstract of ways), we can break down each story into a series of states
each of which that has certain requirements to get to. It could be completion of certain quests earlier in the story,
discovering a certain location, reaching affinity with an individual or faction... etc etc. Achieving these tasks will
put the game into a certain state where such event can occur. States will allow the world to change as a result of the players
actions and do so in a way that preserves autonomy for the player to simply go off course and hit up a dungeon to grind
and get some loot.

One important thing is that pursuing development in this direction will mean that almost any event will have to be handled
in this paradigm. Quest lines will be broken down in to states for each quest which will break down in to states for each
step in the quest etc etc. Even something like a simple side quest will need states.

As a result, states will need to be powerful in terms of what they can handle and will need to have a well thought out
and well written interface to allow for interaction between different elements in the game. Simply put, states are the glue
that binds the game together.

Anyway, that there is what we in the industry call a tangent. Below, I'm going to make just one proposal of the kind of
elements that a location will need to work well in both a gameplay and narrative sense.

_____

ROCKY'S PROPOSAL