pyDM - What's in a Character

While this document could easily be home to a complete breakdown of what makes a good character in interactive media
we will choose to eschew this more esoteric discussion for a later time. Instead, this document will focus on what mechanics
allow for characters to be fully fleshed in both a game play and story sense. Falling in line with the structure of the entire project,
we will first design for gameplay in the most narrow of senses and then build out.

Before outlining what sort of skills and attributes a character should have and how they should impact gameplay we should think of what constitutes a character.

In the paradigm this project is operating: it is important to distinguish a person from a character. While a tough
distinction to make: I think the distinction lies in whether or not the character needs/has attributes assigned to them
that have a measurable impact on the world of the game. Consider this example with two shop keepers.

Shopkeeper A has a static shop. His items have a fixed price and will always sell the same items. He can't be haggled with.
Items you sell do not appear in his inventory etc etc.

Is he a character?

I take the stance that for our purposes he is not a character. He has no real goals and there are few attributes that
one could use to represent him. He is simply a conduit to what ever goods he is selling. As such: I would not think of him
as being represented in the "character" class.

Shopkeeper B, meanwhile, has an inventory that is not set at any given point. He may sell items when you're not in the shop
he only has a finite amount of money to give you for selling his goods. More importantly, he can be haggled with. Perhaps
he's a master at the art of the deal or maybe he will go for almost any offer. Perhaps this behaviour changes the more he
gets to know the PC. Maybe the PC does a quest for this shopkeeper to earn his trust etc etc.

Already, we can see that he is complex. More fleshed out. He has motive beyond a purely utilitarian one. As a result
we he would be a member of the character class.

With this out of the way... I think it's opportune that we look at the three main types of characters there are in a game:

And... for now explore what attributes each type of character may need. ((NOTE: This analysis will initially be
from the COMBAT/basic game play first.))

Player Character
Enemy/Monster
NPC

* Note: There could potentially be overlap between NPCs and Enemy/Monsters. As a result it may be more beneficial to make
Enemies a subclass of NPCs and it would be wise if all members of the character class (or 90%) had combat stats.

So: without further ado allow me to outline the basics for all character sheets as well as how one can use layers and layers
of subclassing to build up a robust and specialised character even while working from a basic template.

Character Sheet Basics:

Basic Info - This is basic information regarding the character. Name. Race. Weight. Height. A short bio perhaps.
Anything that is not quantitative. Key in constructing this part of the character sheet will be going about it in a way
that provides for maximum possible flexibility.


Attributes - While a bit reductionist to think of characters as nothing more than their stats, stats allow a character
to interact in a meaningful way with the world as they define the limits of a character's capabilities. Since stats
are so fundamental to how the game works and the player's experience. I think there should be some thought put into exactly
how they are implemented into the engine and what each stat governs. Below is simply one proposal and I invite all early
collaborators to make their own proposals so that an optimal system can be derived.

_____________________
Rocky's Proposal:

Health Points: This is how many hit points a character has left. No need to reinvent the wheel here. For narrative purposes
it may be interesting to obscure this number from the player and have it conveyed in prose. Based on how much health a player has
they may be seen as "Healthy", "Injured" etc etc.

Spoons: This represents how much effort one has left to spend on special feats be it in or out of combat.

(Will go into greater detail later)

Strength:

Strength governs most of a character's martial abilities. How hard they can swing a sword or an axe and how much damage
said swing does.

Intelligence:

Unlike most systems which have intelligence be the go to stat for spell casters, I feel like it's rather silly and not
the best use of the stat. Instead intelligence has the following effect:

Characters with high intelligence are more likely to know about their surroundings and as a result they will be better
equipped to deal with any "surprises" that head their way. As a result, a character may with high intelligence may be
given extra information about the behaviour of a monster or an alternative path through a dungeon.

Durability:

Durability is how much beating a character can take before they die. It governs Health as well as how much damage one takes
from attacks.



Resolve

Resolve is similar to durability but it governs one's defenses against certain kinds of magicks (those that seek to
contort and play with the mind). It plays a minor role in granting spoons in the sense that it grants a certain amount of
extra spoons per level.

Magicks:

Magicks is one's general aptitude for magic. Even those not in a spell casting role may find that having high magick is
useful as they could end up being able to use low level spells where others in thir class could not.

Charisma

Charisma governs social interactions. Think of it like social intelligence. It influences one's ability to persuade NPCs of a
myriad of things. Characters with high charisma may find they don't have to jump through as many hoops as others. Makes
sense though. Who wouldn't trust a guy with a naturally good smile!

Luck

The last, and most arbitrary, of our skills is luck. It no large role in any one thing but a small role in everything.
Each roll will have a small chance of a luck bonus being added onto it That percentage being governed by one's luck stat.
A poor thing to optimise for but if you find you have a few extra skill points... luck is the place to put them.
____________________


Skills

Inventory

Progress

(ROCKY): I think one of the most difficult things that we will be faced with implementing is how we save progress.
Something that I have been toying around with is having character and game files saved a bit separately. That way
adventures are more modular. One character can be used in multiple different adventures. I don't think this is all too
difficult to implement. Saving character data will likely be as simple as pickling the information from the class
instance.

I contend that the most difficult part of this entire process will be saving game-state information in a way that is simple
yet preserves the game "as the player left it". One idea to somewhat simplify the process is to have "save points" or
something of the like...

Anyway, I'm getting off the topic of characters and what not but I'll finish off this little bit by saying that I think
making a savegame system should come once we figure out how exactly a game works and have some of it coded.


